Specify SPDM Standard Measurement Transcripts (#3341)
DMTF/libspdm: doc/standard_measurement_transcripts.md

# DMTF SPDM Standard Measurement Transcripts

This document describes two standard measurement transcripts for an SPDM Responder that are
constructed by an SPDM Requester and consumed by a Verifier while all agents are operating in
production mode. A specification for, or an implementation of, a Verifier or Requester can specify
and publish support for these transcripts.

## Common Properties

A standard measurement transcript is a byte buffer that consists of the L1/L2 transcript along with
a signature over the transcript if the Responder supports measurement signing. All
`GET_MEASUREMENT` requests have the following properties:
* For SPDM 1.2 and later, `RawBitStreamRequested` is not set.
* For SPDM 1.3 and later, `NewMeasurementRequested` is not set.

## Single-request Measurement Transcript Definition

> The single-request measurement transcript is comprised of a single `GET_MEASUREMENTS` request and a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The single-request measurement transcript comprises a single `GET_MEASUREMENTS` request and a
```

Author: ["comprised of"](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/comprised%20of) is correct.

Reviewer: sure, it’s just using more ASCII codepoints :-)

single `MEASUREMENTS` response. All measurement blocks are present in the `MEASUREMENTS` response.

For SPDM 1.0 and 1.1, the byte buffer is
```
{GET_MEASUREMENTS, MEASUREMENTS}
```

For SPDM 1.2 and later, the byte buffer is
```
{VCA, GET_MEASUREMENTS, MEASUREMENTS}
```

The `GET_MEASUREMENTS` request has the following properties:
* If the Responder supports signature generation (`MEAS_CAP = 10b`) then `SignatureRequested` is
  set, else it is not set.
* `Param2 = 0xFF`

## Multiple-request Measurement Transcript Definition

The multiple-request measurement transcript is comprised of multiple `GET_MEASUREMENTS` requests and
multiple `MEASUREMENTS` responses. Apart from `MEASUREMENTS(0)`, a single and unique measurement
block is present in each `MEASUREMENTS` response.

For SPDM 1.0 and 1.1, the byte buffer is
```
{GET_MEASUREMENTS(0), MEASUREMENTS(0), GET_MEASUREMENTS(1), MEASUREMENTS(1), ..., GET_MEASUREMENTS(N), MEASUREMENTS(N)}
```

> For SPDM 1.2 and later, the byte buffer is

Author: No. If SPDM 1.5 comes along and disrupts this, then it becomes
>For SPDM versions 1.2 through 1.4...

> For SPDM 1.2 and later, the byte buffer is

Author: I imagine this will be a living document with respect to newer specifications, but backwards compatibility will not be broken for already published one. If a Verifier says it supports the Single-request Measurement Transcript for SPDM 1.2, this document will not break that.
